README.md, before:

# Event Manager System

Repository for the project of the course INE5608 - Systems Analysis and Design.

## Installation

### Linux/macOS

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd EventManager-PY
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   make install-dev
   ```
   This installs both production and development dependencies (including Ruff).

### Windows

⚠️ **Important:** Please install the version of Python from the official Python website and not from the Microsoft Store, to avoid compatibility issues.

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```cmd
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd EventManager-PY
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```cmd
   .\build.bat install-dev
   ```
   This installs both production and development dependencies.

### Alternative Installation

```bash
# Linux/macOS
make install          # production only
make install-dev      # production + dev

# Windows
.\build.bat install          # production only
.\build.bat install-dev      # production + dev
```

## Overview

Desktop application for event and ticket management, built in **Python** with **FreeSimpleGUI** for the GUI and **SQLite** for the database.

Commit message:

docs: add email configuration instructions to README

README.md, after:

# Event Manager System

Repository for the project of the course INE5608 - Systems Analysis and Design.

## Installation

### Linux/macOS

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd EventManager-PY
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   make install-dev
   ```
   This installs both production and development dependencies (including Ruff).

### Windows

⚠️ **Important:** Please install the version of Python from the official Python website and not from the Microsoft Store, to avoid compatibility issues.

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```cmd
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd EventManager-PY
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```cmd
   .\build.bat install-dev
   ```
   This installs both production and development dependencies.

### Alternative Installation

```bash
# Linux/macOS
make install          # production only
make install-dev      # production + dev

# Windows
.\build.bat install          # production only
.\build.bat install-dev      # production + dev
```

### Email

⚠️ **Important:** Copy `.env-example` to `.env` and fill the SMTP configuration below to receive the email sent in UC05 (redeem ticket).

Required environment variables:
- EMAIL_SMTP_HOST (e.g. smtp.gmail.com)
- EMAIL_SMTP_PORT (e.g. 587)
- EMAIL_HOST_USER (sender email address)
- EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD (password or app password)

Notes:
- If using Gmail with 2FA, create an App Password and use it as EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD.
- If the email is missing or invalid, the application will skip sending and the ticket redemption will complete normally.

## Overview

Desktop application for event and ticket management, built in **Python** with **FreeSimpleGUI** for the GUI and **SQLite** for the database.
